enhancement-translate-controller-doc-samples (#1535)
cyberbotics/webots: docs/guide/controller-programming.md

    printf("Hello World!\n");

  wb_robot_cleanup();
  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <iostream>
#include <webots/Robot.hpp>

using namespace webots;

int main() {
  Robot *robot = new Robot();

>   while (robot->step(32) != -1)

Author: Should we use a define for here ? We are talking about those specificities later but the next example is using it nonetheless...

Reviewer: I would not use a define or variable here as putting the hard-coded value makes it simpler to read (this is a tutorial).

    std::cout << "Hello World!" << std::endl;

  delete robot;
  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Pyhton"
```python
from controller import Robot

robot = Robot()

while robot.step(32) != -1:
    print("Hello World!")

>     pass

Reviewer: This is not useful?
```suggestion
```

Now that we have seen how to print a message to the console, we shall see how to read the sensors of a robot.
The next example does continuously update and print the value returned by a [DistanceSensor](../reference/distancesensor.md):

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
#include <webots/robot.h>
#include <webots/distance_sensor.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  wb_robot_init();

  WbDeviceTag sensor = wb_robot_get_device("my_distance_sensor");
  wb_distance_sensor_enable(sensor, 32);

  while (wb_robot_step(32) != -1) {
    const double value = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
    printf("Sensor value is %f\n", value);
  }

> 

Author: I started to remove those new lines since it is not consistent with the C++ examples, I guess if we want to free anything we should indicate it with a comment, no ?

Reviewer: I don't understand this comment. Do you mean `const` instead of new lines? Why removing new lines?

Author: Well, I mean the newline between ` wb_robot_cleanup();` and `return 0;` I don't know why I can't make it more readable in the suggestion...

Reviewer: I see. This was not a problem for me, but if you believe it's better this way, this is fine for me.

Now that we have seen how to print a message to the console, we shall see how to read the sensors of a robot.
The next example does continuously update and print the value returned by a [DistanceSensor](../reference/distancesensor.md):

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
#include <webots/robot.h>
#include <webots/distance_sensor.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  wb_robot_init();

  WbDeviceTag sensor = wb_robot_get_device("my_distance_sensor");
  wb_distance_sensor_enable(sensor, 32);

  while (wb_robot_step(32) != -1) {
    const double value = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
    printf("Sensor value is %f\n", value);
  }

  wb_robot_cleanup();

> 

Author: I started to remove those new lines since it is not consistent with the C++ examples, I guess if we want to free anything we should indicate it with a comment

Now that we have seen how to print a message to the console, we shall see how to read the sensors of a robot.
The next example does continuously update and print the value returned by a [DistanceSensor](../reference/distancesensor.md):

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
#include <webots/robot.h>
#include <webots/distance_sensor.h>
#include <stdio.h>

int main() {
  wb_robot_init();

>   WbDeviceTag ds = wb_robot_get_device("my_distance_sensor");

Reviewer: It should be named as in other languages:
```suggestion
  WbDeviceTag sensor = wb_robot_get_device("my_distance_sensor");
```

  wb_distance_sensor_enable(ds, 32);

  while (wb_robot_step(32) != -1) {

>     double dist = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(ds);

Reviewer: It should be `const double value` here as in other languages:
```suggestion
    const double value = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(ds);
```

    printf("Sensor value is %f\n", dist);
  }

  wb_robot_cleanup();

  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <webots/Robot.hpp>
#include <webots/DistanceSensor.hpp>
#include <iostream>

using namespace webots;

int main() {
  Robot *robot = new Robot();

  DistanceSensor *sensor = robot->getDistanceSensor("my_distance_sensor");
  sensor->enable(32);

  while (robot->step(32) != -1) {
    const double value = sensor->getValue();
    std::cout << "Sensor value is: " << value << std::endl;
  }

  delete robot;
  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Pyhton"
```python
from controller import Robot, DistanceSensor

robot = Robot()

sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("my_distance_sensor")
sensor.enable(32)

while robot.step(32) != -1:
    value = sensor.getValue()
    print("Sensor value is: ", value)

>     pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Robot;
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.DistanceSensor;

public class ReadingSensor {

  public static void main(String[] args) {

    final Robot robot = new Robot();

    final DistanceSensor sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("my_distance_sensor");
    sensor.enable(32);

    while (robot.step(32) != -1) {
      final double value = sensor.getValue();
      System.out.println("Sensor value is: " + value);
    }
  }
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB

> ds = wb_robot_get_device("my_distance_sensor");

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sensor = wb_robot_get_device('my_distance_sensor');
```

wb_distance_sensor_enable(ds, 32);

while wb_robot_step(32) ~= -1

>   dist = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(ds);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  value = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(ds);
```

Note that some device return vector values instead of scalar values, for example these functions:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
const double *wb_gps_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
const double *wb_accelerometer_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
const double *wb_gyro_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
webots::GPS::const double *getValues() const;
webots::Accelerometer::const double *getValues() const;
webots::Gyro::const double *getValues() const;
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python

> [x, y, z] GPS.getValues()

Author: I didn't find explicit documentation about how to present methods in class within one line for Python and Java, is my guess right ?

Reviewer: There is no such convention in Python for the return value. It is usually explained in the description text. Maybe our Python sections should contain the source code of the Python method as usually documented in Python, but also a sentence explaining the return value as it is the case in the official Python documentation.

Author: So actually it is displayed like you suggested, but it's not really esthetic since the text drops down and disappears as we change from a tab to another. Even if it belongs to the right place, maybe I can suggest to leave it in the tab itself under a comment so it will remain in the "visual tab" and not at the beginning of the following explanation, almost unnoticeable.

Or we can add a new line before the generic explanation text so we really see this line:
`Returns the sensor measurement as an array of 3 floating point numbers: [x, y, z].` is belonging to the tab and not the text...

Reviewer: Yes you idea of adding it as a comment in the tab seems very good. Let's go ahead with that.

[x, y, z] Accelerometer.getValues()
[z, y, z] Gyro.getValues()

> ```

Reviewer: Here is what I mean:

```python
GPS.getValues()
Accelerometer.getValues()
Gyro.getValues()
```
Returns the sensor measurement as an array of 3 floating point numbers: `[x, y, z]`.

Note that some device return vector values instead of scalar values, for example these functions:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
const double *wb_gps_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
const double *wb_accelerometer_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
const double *wb_gyro_get_values(WbDeviceTag tag);
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp

> webots::GPS::const double *getValues() const;
> webots::Accelerometer::const double *getValues() const;
> webots::Gyro::const double *getValues() const;

Reviewer: That looks odd... The following looks better, isn't it?
```suggestion
const double *webots::GPS::getValues() const;
const double *webots::Accelerometer::getValues() const;
const double *webots::Gyro::getValues() const;
```

Author: Ah yes my bad, this is what I wanted to do in the first place besides...

```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
GPS.getValues()
Accelerometer.getValues()
Gyro.getValues()

> #Returns the sensor measurement as an array of 3 floating point numbers: `[x, y, z]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Returns the sensor measurement as an array of 3 floating point numbers: `[x, y, z]`.
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java

> public GPS::public double[] getValues();
> public Accelerometer::public double[] getValues();
> public Gyro::public double[] getValues();

Reviewer: That looks horrible as well... What about this:
```suggestion
double[] GPS::getValues();
double[] Accelerometer::getValues();
double[] Gyro::getValues();
```

Author: This is why I asked for a suggestion in my very first comment...

```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
[x y z] = wb_gps_get_values(tag)
[x y z] = wb_accelerometer_get_values(tag)
[x y z] = wb_gyro_get_values(tag)
```
%tab-end
%end

> Each function returns a pointer to three double values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In C and C++, each function returns a pointer to three double values.
```

Finally, note that the array elements should not be modified, for this reason the pointer is declared as *const*.
Here are correct examples of code using these functions:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
const double *values = wb_gps_get_values(gps);

// OK, to read the values they should never be explicitly deleted by the controller code
printf("MY_ROBOT is at position: %g %g %g\n", values[0], values[1], values[2]);

// OK, to copy the values
double x, y, z;
x = values[0];
y = values[1];
z = values[2];

// OK, another way to copy the values
double a[3] = { values[0], values[1], values[2] };

// OK, yet another way to copy these values
double b[3];

> memcpy(b, values, sizeof(b));

Reviewer: I believe this is overkill. We should remove it.

Author: You mean all the "extra ways" to copy as well as their equivalent in other languages ?

Reviewer: Yes. I think it doesn't bring anything helpful, right?

Author: Yes I never thought so while translating them... A copy is just a copy in the end

```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
const double *values = gps.getValues();

// OK, to read the values they should never be explicitly deleted by the controller code
std::cout << "MY_ROBOT is at position: " << values[0] << ' ' << values[1] << ' ' << values[2] << std::endl;

// OK, to copy the values
double x, y, z;
x = values[0];
y = values[1];
z = values[2];

// OK, another way to copy the values
double a[3] = { values[0], values[1], values[2] };

// OK, yet another way to copy these values (C++ 11)

> std::array<double, 3> b = { values[0], values[1], values[2] };

Reviewer: I would remove that as well.

```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
values = gps.getValues()

# OK, to read the values they should never be explicitly deleted by the controller code
print("MY_ROBOT is at position: %g %g %g" % (values[0], values[1], values[2]))

> # OK, to copy the values
> x = values[0]
> y = values[1]
> z = values[2]
> 
> # OK, another way to copy the values
> a = []
> a = values
> 

Reviewer: This is pointless and confusing...
```suggestion
```

> # There is no really need to copy differently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# There is no really need to copy these values
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
final const values = gps.getValues();

// OK, to read the values they should never be explicitly deleted by the controller code
System.out.format("MY_ROBOT is at position: %g %g %g\n", values[0], values[1], values[2]);

> // OK, to copy the values
> double x, y, z;
> x = values[0];
> y = values[1];
> z = values[2];
> 
> // OK, another way to copy the values
> double []a = values.clone();
> 
> // OK, yet another way to copy these values
> double []b;
> System.arraycopy(values, 0, b, 0, values.length);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// there is no need to copy these values
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
values = wb_gps_get_values(gps);

% OK, to read the values they should never be explicitly deleted by the controller code
wb_console_print(sprintf('MY_ROBOT is at position: %g %g %g\n', values(1), values(2), values(3)), WB_STDOUT);

> 
> % OK, to copy the values
> x = values[1];
> y = values[2];
> z = values[3];
> 
> % OK, another way to copy the values
> a = copy(values);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
% there is no need to copy these values
```

```
%tab-end
%end

And here are incorrect examples applicable in languages that support constness and memory handling (merely C and C++).

```c
const double *values = wb_gps_get_values(gps);

values[0] = 3.5;      // ERROR: assignment of read-only location
double a = values[3]; // ERROR: index out of range
delete [] values;     // ERROR: illegal free

> free(values);         // ERROR: illegal free

Reviewer: I would also remove this, as it is not related with Webots, but more C programming...

  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <webots/Robot.hpp>
#include <webots/Motor.hpp>
#include <iostream>
#include <cmath>

#define TIME_STEP 32

using namespace webots;

int main() {

  Robot *robot = new Robot();
  Motor *motor = robot->getMotor("my_motor");

  double F = 2.0;   // frequency 2 Hz
  double t = 0.0;   // elapsed simulation time

  while (robot->step(TIME_STEP) != -1) {
    double pos = sin(t * 2.0 * M_PI * F);
    motor->setPosition(pos);
    t += (double)TIME_STEP / 1000.0;
  }

  delete robot;
  return 0;
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
from controller import Robot, Motor
from math import pi, sin

TIME_STEP = 32

robot = Robot()
motor = robot.getMotor("my_motor")

F = 2.0   # frequency 2 Hz
t = 0.0   # elapsed simulation time

while robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1:
    pos = sin(t * 2.0 * pi * F)
    motor.setPosition(pos)
    t += TIME_STEP / 1000.0

>     pass

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Robot;
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Motor;
import java.lang.Math.*;

public class Actuators {

  public static void main(String[] args) {

    final int TIME_STEP = 32;

    final Robot robot = new Robot();
    final Motor motor = robot.getMotor("my_motor");

    double F = 2.0;   // frequency 2 Hz
    double t = 0.0;   // elapsed simulation time

    while (robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1) {

>     double pos = Math.sin(t * 2.0 * Math.PI * F);
>     motor.setPosition(pos);
>     t += (double)TIME_STEP / 1000.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      double pos = Math.sin(t * 2.0 * Math.PI * F);
      motor.setPosition(pos);
      t += (double)TIME_STEP / 1000.0;
```

    }
  }
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
TIME_STEP = 32;
motor = wb_robot_get_device("my_motor");
double F = 2.0;   % frequency 2 Hz
double t = 0.0;   % elapsed simulation time
while wb_robot_step(TIME_STEP) ~= -1
  pos = sin(t * 2.0 * pi * F);
  wb_motor_set_position(motor, pos);

>     t += TIME_STEP / 1000.0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  t += TIME_STEP / 1000.0;
```

```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
my_leg.setPosition(0.34) # BAD: ignored
my_leg.setPosition(0.56)
robot.step(40) # BAD: we don't test the return value of this function
```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
my_leg.setPosition(0.34);  // BAD: ignored
my_leg.setPosition(0.56);
robot.step(40);  // BAD: we don't test the return value of this function
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
wb_motor_set_position(my_leg, 0.34);  % BAD: ignored
wb_motor_set_position(my_leg, 0.56);
wb_robot_step(40);  % BAD: we don't test the return value of this function
```
%tab-end
%end

Similarly this code does not make much sense either:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
while (wb_robot_step(40) != -1) {
  double d1 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  double d2 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  if (d2 > d1)  // WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
    avoidCollision();
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
while (robot->step(40) != -1) {
  double d1 = robot->getDistanceSensor(sensor);
  double d2 = robot->getDistanceSensor(sensor);
  if (d2 > d1)  // WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
    avoidCollision();
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
while robot.step(40) != -1:

>   d1 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
>   d2 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
>   if (d2 > d1) # WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
>     avoidCollision()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    d1 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
    d2 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
    if d2 > d1:  # WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
        avoidCollision()
```

>       avoidCollision()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        avoidCollision()
```

  if (d2 > d1) // WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
    avoidCollision();
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
while wb_robot_step(40) ~= -1
  d1 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  d2 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  if d2 > d1 % WRONG: d2 will always equal d1 here
    avoidCollision();
  end
end
```
%tab-end
%end

Since there was no call to the `wb_robot_step` function between the two sensor readings, the values returned by the sensor cannot have changed in the meantime.
A working version would look like this:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
while (wb_robot_step(40) != -1) {
  double d1 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  if (wb_robot_step(40) == -1)
    break;
  double d2 = wb_distance_sensor_get_value(sensor);
  if (d2 > d1)
    avoidCollision();
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
while (robot->step(40) != -1) {
  double d1 = robot->getDistanceSensor(sensor);
  if (robot->step(40) == -1)
    break;
  double d2 = robot->getDistanceSensor(sensor);
  if (d2 > d1)
    avoidCollision();
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
while robot.step(40) != -1:
    d1 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
    if robot.step(40) == -1:

>       break

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        break
```

    d2 = robot.getDistanceSensor(sensor)
    if d2 > d1:

>       avoidCollision()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        avoidCollision()
```

}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
while robot.step(40) != -1
  readSensors();
  actuateMotors();
end
```
%tab-end
%end

Note that it is important to call the `wb_robot_step` function at the beginning of the loop, in order to make sure that the sensors already have valid values prior to entering the `readSensors` function.
Otherwise the sensors will have undefined values during the first iteration of the loop, hence, the following is not a good example:
Note the following snippets are only translated to languages that support builtin `do...while` statements. The point is to insist that we should always rely on `wb_robot_step` _before_ making any measure.

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
do {
  readSensors(); // warning: sensor values are undefined on the first iteration
  actuateMotors();
} while (wb_robot_step(40) != -1);
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
do {
  readSensors(); // warning: sensor values are undefined on the first iteration
  actuateMotors();
} while (robot->step(40) != -1);
```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
do {
  readSensors(); // warning: sensor values are undefined on the first iteration
  actuateMotors();
} while (robot.step(40) != -1);
```
%tab-end

> %end

Reviewer 2: Is it normal that Python and MATLAB are missing here?

Author: Yes, it is stated above that only languages natively supporting the `do...while` statement are demonstrated, this is also completed by a sentence afterwards which emphasis on the need to call `wb_robot_step()` function :)

import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Motor;
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Robot;

public class ActuSensorJava {

  public static void main(String[] args) {

    final int TIME_STEP = 32;

    Robot robot = new Robot();

    DistanceSensor left_sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("left_sensor");
    DistanceSensor right_sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("right_sensor");
    left_sensor.enable(TIME_STEP);
    right_sensor.enable(TIME_STEP);

    Motor left_motor = robot.getMotor("left_motor");
    Motor right_motor = robot.getMotor("right_motor");
    left_motor.setPosition(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY);
    right_motor.setPosition(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY);
    left_motor.setVelocity(0.0);
    right_motor.setVelocity(0.0);

    while (robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1) {
    // read sensors
    left_dist = left_sensor.getValue();
    right_dist = right_sensor.getValue();

    // compute behavior
    left = compute_left_speed(left_dist, right_dist)
    right = compute_right_speed(left_dist, right_dist)

    // actuate wheel motors
    left_motor.setVelocity(left);
    right_motor.setVelocity(right);
    }
  }
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
TIME_STEP = 32;

> left_sensor = wb_robot_get_device("left_sensor");

Reviewer: MATLAB requires single quotes, please check other instances of this mistake:
```suggestion
left_sensor = wb_robot_get_device('left_sensor');
```

    right_dist = right_sensor.getValue()

    # compute behavior (user functions)
    left = compute_left_speed(left_dist, right_dist)
    right = compute_right_speed(left_dist, right_dist)

    # actuate wheel motors
    left_motor.setVelocity(left)
    right_motor.setVelocity(right)
```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.DistanceSensor;
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Motor;
import com.cyberbotics.webots.controller.Robot;

public class ActuSensorJava {

  public static void main(String[] args) {

    final int TIME_STEP = 32;

    final Robot robot = new Robot();

    final DistanceSensor left_sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("left_sensor");
    final DistanceSensor right_sensor = robot.getDistanceSensor("right_sensor");
    left_sensor.enable(TIME_STEP);
    right_sensor.enable(TIME_STEP);

    final Motor left_motor = robot.getMotor("left_motor");
    final Motor right_motor = robot.getMotor("right_motor");
    left_motor.setPosition(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY);
    right_motor.setPosition(Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY);
    left_motor.setVelocity(0.0);
    right_motor.setVelocity(0.0);

    while (robot.step(TIME_STEP) != -1) {

>     // read sensors
>     final double left_dist = left_sensor.getValue();
>     final double right_dist = right_sensor.getValue();
> 
>     // compute behavior (user functions)
>     final double left = compute_left_speed(left_dist, right_dist);
>     final double right = compute_right_speed(left_dist, right_dist);
> 
>     // actuate wheel motors
>     left_motor.setVelocity(left);
>     right_motor.setVelocity(right);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      // read sensors
      final double left_dist = left_sensor.getValue();
      final double right_dist = right_sensor.getValue();

      // compute behavior (user functions)
      final double left = compute_left_speed(left_dist, right_dist);
      final double right = compute_right_speed(left_dist, right_dist);

      // actuate wheel motors
      left_motor.setVelocity(left);
      right_motor.setVelocity(right);
```

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <cstdlib>

// freeze the whole simulation
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
import sys

# freeze the whole simulation
if finished:
  saveExperimentData()
  sys.exit(0)
```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
// freeze the whole simulation
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  System.exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
% freeze the whole simulation
if finished
  saveExperimentData();
  quit(0);
end
```
%tab-end
%end

If only one robot controller needs to terminate but the simulation should continue with the other robots, then the terminating robot should call the `wb_robot_cleanup` function right before quitting:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
#include <stdlib.h>

// terminate only this robot controller
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentsData();
  wb_robot_cleanup();
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <cstdlib>

// terminate only this robot controller
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentsData();
  delete robot;
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
import sys

# terminate only this robot controller
if finished:
  saveExperimentsData()
  del robot

>   sys.exit(0)

Author: Is it possible ? If so what about other languages ?

Reviewer 2: It is indeed, but the `del robot` is probably useless as the Python garbage collector will do the job for you 😉

Reviewer 2: About Java, you can probably use something similar with: ``System.exit(0);``.

Author: So is this sentence relevant for other languages than C ?

> If only one robot controller needs to terminate but the simulation should continue with the other robots, then the terminating robot should call the wb_robot_cleanup function right before quitting:

Reviewer 2: Not really, as this function is called from the deletion of the robot class.
You can probably have a look at this cross-languages samples:
https://cyberbotics.com/doc/guide/tutorial-4-more-about-controllers?tab-language=c++#the-controller-code

// freeze the whole simulation
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "Python"
```python
import sys

# freeze the whole simulation
if finished:
  saveExperimentData()
  sys.exit(0)
```
%tab-end

%tab "Java"
```java
// freeze the whole simulation
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  System.exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "MATLAB"
```MATLAB
% freeze the whole simulation
if finished
  saveExperimentData();
  quit(0);
end
```
%tab-end
%end

Please note that this specific use case is only possible in C/C++ since controllers written in a different language will handle the cleanup part their own way.
If only one robot controller needs to terminate but the simulation should continue with the other robots, then the terminating robot should call the `wb_robot_cleanup` function right before quitting:

%tab-component "language"
%tab "C"
```c
#include <stdlib.h>

// terminate only this robot controller
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  wb_robot_cleanup();
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

%tab "C++"
```cpp
#include <cstdlib>

// terminate only this robot controller
if (finished) {
  saveExperimentData();
  delete robot;
  exit(0);
}
```
%tab-end

> %end

Reviewer: I would remove all this and move the `wb_robot_cleanup()`  and `delete robot;` statements in the above code snippet.

> Note that the exit status as well as the value returned by the `main` function are ignored by Webots.

Reviewer: Exit status and return value of main are the same...
```suggestion
Note that the exit status of a Webots controller ignored by Webots.
```
